# stellavitrum
Python FITS numerical analyzer

Every day NASA collects terabytes of information from various satellites and space telescopes,  analyzes this raw data, and then uses it to create stunning photographs for the general public. NASA has its own programs and algorithms to analyze the data and create images. The purpose of this project was to write and develop a software program to analyze images more efficiently than the programs NASA currently uses. The software program, Stella Vitrum, was created using the Python programing language to more efficiently convert the FITS numerical satellite data into visual images. Astronomers collect data using sensors and apparatus coming from all wavelengths of light, and this program was developed to analyze that data. This project focused on X-ray imaging from the Chandra X-Ray Observatory. When the Stella Vitrum program is run, Similar NASA programs take approximately two hours to analyze the numeric data and complete an image, but Stella Vitrum does this in less than two minutes. Stella Vitrum follows a multi-step process when creating an image. First, the file is read, and based on the size of the data, a matrix is built. The original file from the satellite is then extracted, organizing the data into a usable format. The entire data set is then scaled and formatted. If multiple files are passed in at a time, the matrices are combined before writing the data to an image file using the PNG format. The data’s final form is a colorful image like those seen on NASA websites. The initial implication of the results indicate that if the Stella Vitrum software is implemented by organizations like NASA, astronomers and scientists will be able to make accurate visual observations from the numerical satellite data almost immediately after data collection. Stella Vitrum could also be used to crowdsource  image creation in order to make discoveries more efficiently. The initial results from the Stella Vitrum program are very promising and reached the goal of the project which was to analyze NASA data more efficiently than currently used programs. Future versions of Stella Vitrum will incorporate further functionality to the program including additional scaling methods, outlier filtering, interpolation, multiple types of color filters, and user interface improvements.

